vrb is meant to bring the ease of use of VMware's PowerCLI to unix/ruby people by way of exposing a friendlier set of actions and information than just using rbvmomi on its own.

== Disclaimer

I am not a ruby developer, I just play one on Github. I am a systems/virtualization/devops engineer with much more of a scripting background. Besides the obvious goal of creating vrb to make my own life easier at work, I am also using this project to attempt to elevate my understanding of ruby (and frankly, OOP in general).

Patience and grace are requested, as well as your contributions.

== Usage

  >> vc = Vrb::Vcenter.new(vcenter_name, username, password)
   => Vrb::Vcenter(vcenter_name)
  >> vc.list_datacenters
   => ['Seattle', 'Chicago', 'London']
  >> dc = vc.get_datacenter('Seattle')
   => Vrb::Datacenter(Seattle)
  >> cl = dc.get_cluster 'Prod'
   => Vrb::Cluster(Prod)
  >> host = cl.get_host 'host1.domain.tld'
   => Vrb::Host(host1.domain.tld)
  >> vm = host.get_vm 'myvm'
   => Vrb::VM(myvm)
  >> vm.os
   => 'CentOS 4/5/6'
  >> vm.ip
   => '10.0.1.2'

== Notable features
* Friendly names everywhere you look (or inspect)
* Clone a VM using an existing vCenter customization specification! Even pass IPs!
* Change network labels on an existing VM
* If you're already using fog, Vrb::Vcenter.new will recognize and pick up your ~/.fog file
* Mix and match Vrb and RbVmomi methods! Just call .mob on any Vrb object to get direct access to the RbVmomi managed object reference
* Access a VM direct from vCenter without traversing the hierarchy: <code>vc.get_vm_by_path('Seattle/vm/Folder1/myvm'</code>
* View hard to get to data like vNIC information as simple ivars

== Known Issues
* vNIC-related actions currently only support the VMware vDS. Sorry, that's mostly what I use at work. Support for sVS networks will be added eventually.

== Todos
* VM NIC information needs cleanup
* Add more info to cluster/host/vm objects. some ideas:
  - HA/DRS state
  - active alarms
* Add more common actions. some ideas:
  - maintenance mode
  - power on/off